---
layout: post
title: Blog Creation Process
description: A meta post about creating this blog
date: 2024-04-05T07:00:00-07:00
tags: Meta
---

## Creating a Blog with GitHub Pages

Any Github user can create a [Github Pages Website](https://pages.github.com/) for their profile, plus a site for each project. The page files are simply written in [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/getting-started/) and generated by [Jekyll](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/about-github-pages-and-jekyll). Jekyll doesn't natively support Windows, and I'm not dying to learn much Ruby or Liquid, so I found a great template and tutorial, courtesy of [Chad Baldwin](https://chadbaldwin.net/2021/03/14/how-to-build-a-sql-blog.html). Chad created a GitHub template repository for his blog and I just cloned it to my own repository. There are a number of tweaks and customizations I've made so far, and I'll surely continue to add more.

### Front Matter
A front matter block is a YAML code snippet that appears at the top of the markdown file. It specifies metadata about the page. If you're more comfortable using Liquid and HTML, I'm sure you can do much cooler things with front matter. I just use it to specify the post title, the description, the date, and most importatly, the tag. Chad's template orders blogs by date under each tag, so I'm using tags to organize my posts by topic.

### Dark Mode

I **love** dark mode. I use it on all my devices, at all times. It's quite jarring to see a bright white screen nowadays. Chad replied to a comment on his post, detailing how to add dark mode. I'll copy his comment here so it's easier to find. The following code snippet should be placed in the <code class="notranslate">/_includes/head.html</code> file. 
```HTML
<!-- dark theme using DarkReader -->
<script src="//unpkg.com/darkreader@4.9.40/darkreader.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  DarkReader.setFetchMethod(window.fetch); // Fix to remedy CORS errors in chrome console
  //DarkReader.enable();
  DarkReader.auto( {brightness: 100, contrast: 90, sepia: 10} );
</script>
```