---
layout: post
title: PyCon US
description: A Python Developer's Conference in Pittsburgh, PA
date: 2024-05-21T07:00:00-07:00
tags: Life
---

# PyCon US 2024 - Pittsburgh, PA

## The Conference
I attended PyCon US for the first time this past week. It's been a great way to get plugged further into the developer community. Day 1 was last Thursday, 5/16. I attended some discussions about LLM creation and deployment. I also met some of the folks who I'd end up spending more time with throughout the conference. The expo hall officially opened that evening so I made sure to swing by the PyData Pittsburgh table, among others. I also participated in the Ansys booth's demonstration of their new Python CAD simulation solver. It threw me back to some engineering school classes. I ended up taking home a Keychron V6 mechanical keyboard from Ansys, which was super cool. Its brown switches are much quieter than my blues and should make gaming with me far more pleasant for my teammates.

Friday was a fun and full day. I checked out a number of talks in the morning, including demonstrations of using Python for web and mobile app development. I also learned a bit more about logging and debugging. In the afternoon, I hopped into an open space conversation about the tech nomad lifestyle. I met some really cool folks in there as we exchanged ideas and tips about working and living nomadically. I'll write more about my Europe trip on here at some point because I am really proud of how well we executed that plan. I shared a lot of what we learned in Europe and hopefully was able to help some other folks have similarly smooth experiences when they try working abroad.

After the open space talk, a group of us headed out to a series of happy hour events that were taking place nearby. We bounced from Sienna Mercato to Howl at the Moon to Aslin Brewing. I met a bunch of folks at each place, learned about some companies and some cool personal projects, and progressively lost my voice. I was disappointed to duck out early, as a large contingent headed to Puttshack for mini golf, but I had to be at the convention center at 8am on Saturday morning.

I worked the PyData Pittsburgh booth Saturday morning. It was a pretty slow shift, as most people either attended Keynotes or skipped morning session altogether. I attended another couple open space discussions and learned about Framework laptops within broader open-source, right to repair conversations. Saturday evening saw another group of attendees head out for happy hour and a vital tourist trip to Primanti Bros.

Sunday's job fair was perhaps the biggest letdown of the week. Hiring is down right now, but I was still a bit surprised at how few companies were present. 

All told, I met a bunch of really cool folks, reconnected with some others, and feel very motivated to keep pursuing Python programming as a career path and a tool to create unique and useful projects. PyOhio is a free conference in Cleveland in July. I should have some projects to show for by that time.